Docs: Update release notes to include the Helm changes (#2301)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/release-notes/v2.2.md

- **Configurable prefix for object storage**: Mimir can now store block data, rules, and alerts in one bucket, each under its own user-defined prefix, rather than requiring one bucket for each.
  You can configure the storage prefix by using `-<storage>.storage-prefix` option for corresponding storage: `ruler-storage`, `alertmanager-storage` or `blocks-storage`.

- **Store-gateway can now optionally prepopulate the file system cache when memory-mapping index-header files.**
  This can help store-gateway to avoid looking stuck while loading index-headers.
  Feature can be enabled with new experimental flag `-blocks-storage.bucket-store.index-header.map-populate-enabled`.

- **Faster ingester startup**: Ingesters now replay Write-Ahead-Log by about 50% faster, and they also re-join the ring sooner under some conditions.

> - **Helm Chart improvements**: The [Mimir Helm chart](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed) is our recommended way to install Mimir on Kubernetes. As part of the Mimir 2.2 release, we're also releasing a major version bump to the Helm chart. Below we mention some of the most notable enhancements. For the full list, see the [Helm chart changelog](FIXME LINK).

Reviewer: done in d68fe710aba16f6b55423e7b806ba35e9f292501

  - The Helm chart now supports installing Mimir on [OpenShift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift). 

>   - The Helm chart can now easily deploy the [Grafana Agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent) to scrape metrics and logs from all Mimir pods and ship them to a remote store, making it easy to monitor the health of your Mimir installation. For more information on how to set this up, see [FIXME](fixme - link to docs on this). 

Reviewer 2: I understand that all these FIXMEs are blockers for this PR, right?

Reviewer: they are and I think I replaced all of them in https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2301/commits/210dca4a7fb100ccfcc21e8c2b2f17e4ae6749d6 . In https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2301/commits/c68d880d5a1591fba9859039b4014eeb5335b9d4 I also removed one which talked about the smoke-test tool, which wasn't included in the getting started guide

  - We’ve significantly leveled up the configuration experience for the Helm chart. A few of the most salient changes:
    - We’ve added an `extraEnvFrom` capability to all Mimir services to enable injecting secrets via environment variables.
    - We’ve made it possible to globally set environment variables and inject secrets across all pods in the chart using `global.extraEnv` and `global.extraEnvFrom`. Note that the memcached and minio pods are not included.
    - We’ve switched the default storage of the Mimir configuration from a `Secret` to a `ConfigMap`, which makes it easier to quickly diff your Mimir configuration between upgrades. We especially like the [Helm diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff) plugin for this purpose.

>     - We’ve added a structuredConfig option which allows overwriting specific key<>value pairs in the `mimir.config` template, saving you from having to maintain the entire `mimir.config` in your own values.yaml.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - We’ve added a `structuredConfig` option which allows overwriting specific key<>value pairs in the `mimir.config` template, saving you from having to maintain the entire `mimir.config` in your own `values.yaml`.
```

    - We’ve added the ability to create global pod annotations. This unlocks the ability to trigger a restart of all services in response to a single event, like the update of the secret containing Mimir’s storage credentials. 

>   - We’ve set the chart to disable `ingester.ring.unregister-on-shutdown` and `distributor.extend-writes` to make for a smoother upgrade experience. Now rolling restarts of ingesters should be less likely to cause spikes in resource usage. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - We’ve set the chart to disable `-ingester.ring.unregister-on-shutdown` and `-distributor.extend-writes` to make for a smoother upgrade experience. Now rolling restarts of ingesters should be less likely to cause spikes in resource usage. 
```

- **Configurable prefix for object storage**: Mimir can now store block data, rules, and alerts in one bucket, each under its own user-defined prefix, rather than requiring one bucket for each.
  You can configure the storage prefix by using `-<storage>.storage-prefix` option for corresponding storage: `ruler-storage`, `alertmanager-storage` or `blocks-storage`.

- **Store-gateway performance optimization**
  The store-gateway can now pre-populate the file system cache when memory-mapping index-header files.
  This can help the store-gateway avoid looking stuck while loading [index-headers]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/binary-index-header" >}}). 
  This feature is experimental and disabled by default; enable it using the flag `-blocks-storage.bucket-store.index-header.map-populate-enabled`.

- **Faster ingester startup**: Ingesters now replay their Write-Ahead-Logs about 50% faster, and they also re-join the ring sooner under some conditions.

> - **Helm Chart improvements**: The [Mimir Helm chart](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed) is our recommended way to install Mimir on Kubernetes. As part of the Mimir 2.2 release, we're also releasing a version 3.0 of the Helm chart. Below we mention some of the most notable enhancements. For the full list, see the [Helm chart changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Helm Chart improvements**: The [Mimir Helm chart](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed) is the best way to install Mimir on Kubernetes. As part of the Mimir 2.2 release, we're also releasing version 3.0 of the Helm chart. Notable enhancements follow. For the full list of changes, see the [Helm chart changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed/CHANGELOG.md).
```

  - The Helm chart now supports [OpenShift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift). 
  - The Helm chart can now easily deploy the [Grafana Agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent) to scrape metrics and logs from all Mimir pods and ship them to a remote store, making it easy to monitor the health of your Mimir installation. For more information on how to set this up, see [Collecting metrics and logs from Grafana Mimir]({{< relref "../operators-guide/monitoring-grafana-mimir/collecting-metrics-and-logs.md" >}}).

>   - The Helm chart now enables multi-tenancy by default. This makes it easy for users to add tenants as they grow their cluster and take advantage of Mimir's per-tenant quality-of-service features, which improve its stability and resilience at high scale. To learn more about how multi-tenancy in Mimir works, see [Grafana Mimir authorization and authentication]({{< relref "../operators-guide/securing/authentication-and-authorization" >}}). We've implemented this change in a way that is backwards compatible. To read about how we did this, see [#2117](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2117). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - The Helm chart now enables multi-tenancy by default. This makes it easy for you to add tenants as you grow your cluster. You can take advantage of Mimir's per-tenant quality-of-service features, which improves stability and resilience at high scale. To learn more about how multi-tenancy in Mimir works, see [Grafana Mimir authorization and authentication]({{< relref "../operators-guide/securing/authentication-and-authorization" >}}). This change is backwards-compatible. To read about how we implemented this, see [#2117](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2117). 
```

>   - We've significantly leveled up the configuration experience for the Helm chart. A few of the most salient changes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - We have significantly improved the configuration experience for the Helm chart, and here are a few of the most salient changes:
```

    - We've added an `extraEnvFrom` capability to all Mimir services to enable you to inject secrets via environment variables.
    - We've made it possible to globally set environment variables and inject secrets across all pods in the chart using `global.extraEnv` and `global.extraEnvFrom`. Note that the memcached and minio pods are not included.

>     - We've switched the default storage of the Mimir configuration from a `Secret` to a `ConfigMap`, which makes it easier to quickly diff your Mimir configuration between upgrades. We especially like the [Helm diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff) plugin for this purpose.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - We've switched the default storage of the Mimir configuration from a `Secret` to a `ConfigMap`, which makes it easier to quickly see the differences between your Mimir configurations between upgrades. We especially like the [Helm diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff) plugin for this purpose.
```

>     - We've added a `structuredConfig` option which allows you to overwrite specific key<>value pairs in the `mimir.config` template, saving you from having to maintain the entire `mimir.config` in your own `values.yaml`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - We've added a `structuredConfig` option, which allows you to overwrite specific key<>value pairs in the `mimir.config` template, saving you from having to maintain the entire `mimir.config` in your own `values.yaml`.
```
What is "key<>value". Can we simply write "key-value" in plain English? If not, use `key<>value` instead.

>     - We've added the ability to create global pod annotations. This unlocks the ability to trigger a restart of all services in response to a single event, like the update of the secret containing Mimir's storage credentials. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - We've added the ability to create global pod annotations. This unlocks the ability to trigger a restart of all services in response to a single event, like the update of the secret containing Mimir's storage credentials. 
```
For clarity, which punctuation is accurate:
* global-pod annotations
* global, pod annotations

>   - We've set the chart to disable `-ingester.ring.unregister-on-shutdown` and `-distributor.extend-writes` to make for a smoother upgrade experience. Now rolling restarts of ingesters should be less likely to cause spikes in resource usage. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - We've set the chart to disable `-ingester.ring.unregister-on-shutdown` and `-distributor.extend-writes`, for a smoother upgrade experience. Rolling restarts of ingesters are now less likely to cause spikes in resource usage. 
```

  - We've improved the documentation experience for the Helm chart by adding a [Getting started with Mimir using the Helm chart]({{< relref "../operators-guide/deploy-grafana-mimir/getting-started-helm-charts.md" >}}). 

>   - We've added a smoke test for your Mimir cluster to help catch errors immediately after you install or upgrade via Helm.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - We've added a smoke test for your Mimir cluster to help catch errors immediately after you install or upgrade Mimir via the Helm chart.
```
Vet this for technical accuracy.
